---
layout: post
title: SSD Wow
---

You know all those people that have been saying for years that you are an idiot if you don't have a [SSD](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid-state_drive)? Turns out they're right.  
  
As a favour I do a bit of system administration for a veterinary clinic. They opened 4 years ago and, as such, their computers are at that age where phantom slowness is creeping in. Their book keeping computer was the worst of it. QuickBooks seems particularly I/O intensive so I decided to order in a SSD and give it a shot.  
  
Before I swapped out the HDD I did a quick stop-watch timing of the start up from power button pressed to WinXp login screen: 73 seconds.  
Then I dropped in the SSD, moved the data over and then removed the HDD: 23 seconds!  
That's not setting any boot time records, but a very big improvement. I didn't bother measuring application load time but they're claiming its significantly improved as well.
  
So, it turns out those people who've been telling you get a SSD have been right. And they happen to go on sale pretty frequently these days. So do yourself a favour and at least put your system and applications partitian on a SSD. Your collection of media can continue to live on that monster set of HDDs you have.
  
Footnote:
Do machines actually get slower or do they just seem slow relative to newer machines?  
Assuming a freshly installed system, it theoretically should be the same speed when it is new and when it is 5 years old. I guess mechanical hard drives theoretically might slow down do to bearing wear. But with that big of an impact to overall system performace?
